Date - 21st November 2024!!

Before Start React Js ---> Previous Js (Advance Concepts should be Clear)  

-------------------
React Js Start
-------------------

Syllabus

React
Components - class components --> OOPs, Class Keyword, Super Keyword, Constructor, Default Constructor.
Functional Components - Functions

(industry uses - Functional Components)
but Class Components - * 
[*We Do Both]

React - Class Components And Functional Components

Functional Components --> PROJECT

- - - - - - - - - -

Components - Class and Functions

- Data transfer (parent, child, children)
- Props
- State
- Hooks
- Life Cycle
- Context API
- State Management Tool --> redux, redux tool kit
- Middlewares - Thunk and Saga
- Misc({many more topics}) 
-------------------
React Intro and Its History?

React.js is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces, particularly for single-page applications (SPAs), where you need fast, interactive, and dynamic user interfaces. It is often used for building front-end components or entire applications.

Why React was created and by whom?
React was developed by Jordan Walke, a software engineer at Facebook, in 2011. It was initially created to solve problems that Facebook and Instagram were facing in building highly interactive UIs. React was released to the public as an open-source project in 2013.

Main reasons React was created:
Performance Concerns: Before React, updating the DOM (Document Object Model) in traditional JavaScript applications was relatively inefficient. As the UI of a page changed (e.g., after a user action like clicking a button or submitting a form), the browser would have to re-render large parts of the DOM, which could be slow and resource-intensive.

React introduced a concept called Virtual DOM. Instead of directly manipulating the real DOM, React keeps a lightweight copy (the Virtual DOM) of the actual DOM. It compares the Virtual DOM to the real DOM and only updates the parts of the DOM that need to change. This makes updates faster and more efficient.

Component-Based Architecture: React was designed around the idea of components, which are reusable, self-contained pieces of code that manage their own state and render their own UI. This modular approach simplifies the development and maintenance of large applications because you can easily manage individual components without affecting others.

Declarative Syntax: React uses a declarative approach to UI development, which makes it easier for developers to describe how the UI should look based on the application state. For instance, if a user clicks a button or types into a form, React will automatically re-render the parts of the UI that depend on the state. This makes React applications more predictable and easier to debug.

Developer Experience: React focuses on providing a better developer experience. It introduced features like JSX (a syntax that allows mixing HTML with JavaScript), and a unidirectional data flow, which makes it easier to understand and debug. React's ecosystem also provides powerful tools like React DevTools, which make it easier to inspect and debug components.

Why React if we already have JavaScript DOM?
The DOM (Document Object Model) is the standard way browsers represent web pages, and JavaScript allows developers to interact with the DOM to manipulate the web page’s content. However, the DOM has certain performance and developer experience limitations that React addresses:

Performance Issues with Direct DOM Manipulation: In traditional JavaScript, when the DOM is manipulated directly (for instance, by using document.createElement() or innerHTML), the browser often has to re-render large portions of the page, which can be slow. For complex UIs with many changes, this can result in significant performance bottlenecks.

React solves this by using the Virtual DOM, which is a lightweight representation of the actual DOM. Instead of updating the real DOM directly, React updates the Virtual DOM first, then compares the Virtual DOM to the real DOM and makes only the necessary changes, significantly improving performance.

Handling Complex UIs: Modern web applications often have complex UIs with lots of dynamic content. Manually handling these updates with JavaScript can quickly become cumbersome and error-prone. React provides a simpler way to handle UI changes by using components that manage their own state and automatically update when that state changes.

Declarative Syntax vs. Imperative DOM Manipulation: Traditional JavaScript uses an imperative style of programming, where you explicitly tell the browser what to do step by step (e.g., update this element, append this child). React uses a declarative style, where you describe what the UI should look like based on the state, and React takes care of how to update the DOM.

This declarative approach makes the code more readable, easier to maintain, and less prone to bugs.

Reactivity and State Management: React provides built-in mechanisms for state management and automatic reactivity. When the state of a component changes, React re-renders only the affected parts of the UI, making the application more efficient. JavaScript on its own doesn’t provide a simple way to manage state and ensure that the UI updates when that state changes.

In summary:
React was created to address the shortcomings of traditional JavaScript DOM manipulation by introducing more efficient ways to update the DOM, using the Virtual DOM, and offering a more declarative, component-based approach to UI development. While JavaScript and the DOM are fundamental building blocks of web development, React enhances them by improving performance, maintainability, and developer experience for building modern, dynamic web applications.


-------------------
setup

node js
npm node modules
npx create-react-app appname
cd appname
npm Start
